docs/source/user/benchmarks.rst, before:

.. _user-bench:

Benchmarks
###########

The following benchmarks represent typical use cases of *uDeviceX*.
They were performed on the `Piz-Daint <https://www.cscs.ch/computers/piz-daint/>`_ supercomputer for both strong and weak scaling.
See in `benchmarks/cases/` for more informations about the run scripts.


Bulk Solvent
============

Periodic Poiseuille flow in a periodic domain in every direction, with solvent only.
Timings are based on the average time-step wall time, measured from the :any:`SimulationStats` plugin.

.. figure:: ../images/strong_solvent.png
    :figclass: align-center

    strong scaling for multiple domain sizes


.. figure:: ../images/weak_solvent.png
    :figclass: align-center

    weak scaling efficiency for multiple subdomain sizes


The weak scaling efficiency is very close to 1 thanks to the almost perfect overlapping of communication and computation.


Bulk Blood
==========

Periodic Poiseuille flow for blood with 45% Hematocrite in a periodic domain in every direction.
Timings are based on the average time-step wall time, measured from the :any:`SimulationStats` plugin.

.. figure:: ../images/strong_blood.png
    :figclass: align-center

    strong scaling for multiple domain sizes


.. figure:: ../images/weak_blood.png
    :figclass: align-center

    weak scaling efficiency for multiple subdomain sizes

The weak scaling efficiency is lower than in the solvent only case because of the complexity of the problem:

* Multiple solvents
* FSI interactions
* contact interactions
* Many objects
* Bounce back on membranes

The above induces a lot more communication than the simple solvent only case.

Poiseuille Flow
===============

Poiseuille flow between two plates (walls), with solvent only.
Timings are based on the average time-step wall time, measured from the :any:`SimulationStats` plugin.

.. figure:: ../images/strong_walls.png
    :figclass: align-center

    strong scaling for multiple domain sizes


.. figure:: ../images/weak_walls.png
    :figclass: align-center

    weak scaling efficiency for multiple subdomain sizes



Rigid Objects suspension
========================

TODO

Commit message:

add rigids suspension benchmarks to docs

docs/source/user/benchmarks.rst, after:

.. _user-bench:

Benchmarks
###########

The following benchmarks represent typical use cases of *uDeviceX*.
They were performed on the `Piz-Daint <https://www.cscs.ch/computers/piz-daint/>`_ supercomputer for both strong and weak scaling.
See in `benchmarks/cases/` for more informations about the run scripts.


Bulk Solvent
============

Periodic Poiseuille flow in a periodic domain in every direction, with solvent only.
Timings are based on the average time-step wall time, measured from the :any:`SimulationStats` plugin.

.. figure:: ../images/strong_solvent.png
    :figclass: align-center

    strong scaling for multiple domain sizes


.. figure:: ../images/weak_solvent.png
    :figclass: align-center

    weak scaling efficiency for multiple subdomain sizes


The weak scaling efficiency is very close to 1 thanks to the almost perfect overlapping of communication and computation.


Bulk Blood
==========

Periodic Poiseuille flow for blood with 45% Hematocrite in a periodic domain in every direction.
Timings are based on the average time-step wall time, measured from the :any:`SimulationStats` plugin.

.. figure:: ../images/strong_blood.png
    :figclass: align-center

    strong scaling for multiple domain sizes


.. figure:: ../images/weak_blood.png
    :figclass: align-center

    weak scaling efficiency for multiple subdomain sizes

The weak scaling efficiency is lower than in the solvent only case because of the complexity of the problem:

* Multiple solvents
* FSI interactions
* contact interactions
* Many objects
* Bounce back on membranes

The above induces a lot more communication than the simple solvent only case.

Poiseuille Flow
===============

Poiseuille flow between two plates (walls), with solvent only.
Timings are based on the average time-step wall time, measured from the :any:`SimulationStats` plugin.

.. figure:: ../images/strong_walls.png
    :figclass: align-center

    strong scaling for multiple domain sizes


.. figure:: ../images/weak_walls.png
    :figclass: align-center

    weak scaling efficiency for multiple subdomain sizes



Rigid Objects suspension
========================

Periodic Poiseuille flow for rigid suspensions in a periodic domain.
Timings are based on the average time-step wall time, measured from the :any:`SimulationStats` plugin.

.. figure:: ../images/weak_rigids.png
    :figclass: align-center

    weak scaling efficiency for multiple subdomain sizes
