docs/source/user/installation.rst, before:

.. _user-install:

.. role:: console(code)
   :language: console

Installation
############

YMeRo
*****

YMeRo requires at least Kepler-generation NVIDIA GPU and depends on a few external tools and libraries:

- Unix-based OS
- NVIDIA CUDA toolkit version >= 9.2
- gcc compiler with c++14 support compatible with CUDA installation
- CMake version >= 3.8
- Python interpreter version >= 3.4
- MPI library
- HDF5 parallel library
- libbfd for pretty debug information in case of an error

With all the prerequisites installed, you can take the following steps to run YMeRo:

#. Get the up-to-date version of the code:

   .. code-block:: console
      
      $ git clone --recursive https://github.com/cselab/YMeRo.git ymero
      
#. In most cases automatic installation will work correctly, you should try it in the first place.
   Navigate to the folder with the code and run the installation command:
   
   .. code-block:: console
      
      $ cd ymero
      $ make install
    
   In case of any issues, check the prerequisites or try a more "manual" way:
    
   #. From the ymero folder, create a build folder and run CMake:
   
      .. code-block:: console
         
         $ mkdir -p build/
         $ cd build
         $ cmake ../
      
      If CMake reports some packages are not found, make sure you have all the prerequisites installed and corresponding modules loaded.
      If that doesn't help, or you have some packages installed in non-default locations,
      you will need to manually point CMake to the correct locations.
      
      See CMake documentation for more details on how to provide package installation files.
      
      .. note::
         On CRAY systems you may need to tell CMake to dynamically link the libraries by the following flag:
         
         .. code-block:: console
         
            $ cmake -DCMAKE_EXE_LINKER_FLAGS="-dynamic" ../
            
      .. note::
         Usually CMake will correctly determine compute capability of your GPU. However, if compiling on a machine without a GPU
         (for example on a login node of a cluster), you may manually specify the compute capability (use your version instead of 6.0):
         
         .. code-block:: console
         
            $ cmake -DCUDA_ARCH_NAME=6.0 ../
            
         Note that in case you don't specify any capability, YMeRo will be compiled for all supported architectures, which increases
         compilation time and slightly increases application startup. Performance, however, should not be affected.
      
   #. Now you can compile the code:
   
      .. code-block:: console
         
         $ make -j <number_of_jobs> 
      
      The library will be generated in the current build folder.
      
   #. A simple way to use YMeRo after compilation is to install it with pip. Navigate to the root folder of YMeRo
      and run the following command:
      
      .. code-block:: console
         
         $ pip install --user --upgrade .
         
         
#. Now you should be able to use the YMeRo in your Python scripts:
      
   .. code-block:: python
        
      import ymero
   

Compile Options
***************

Additional compile options are provided through ``cmake``:

* ``MEMBRANE_DOUBLE:BOOL=OFF``: Computes membrane forces (see :any:`MembraneForces`) in double prcision if set to ``ON``; default: single precision
* ``ROD_DOUBLE:BOOL=OFF``:  Computes rod forces (see :any:`RodForces`) in double prcision if set to ``ON``; default: single precision
* ``USE_NVTX:BOOL=OFF``: Add NVIDIA Tools Extension (NVTX) trace support for more profiling informations if set to ``ON``; default: no NVTX


Tools
*****

Additional helper tools can be installed for convenience.
They are required for testing the code.

   .. code-block:: console
        
      $ cd tools/
      $ ./configure
      $ make install

 
   .. note::
      By default, the tools are installed in your ``$HOME/bin`` directory.
      It is possible to choose another location by setting the ``--bin-prefix`` option:
      
      .. code-block:: console
      
	 $ ./configure --bin-prefix <my-custom-tools-location>


   .. note::
      In order to run on a cluster with a job scheduler (e.g. slurm), the ``--exec-cmd`` option should be set to the right command, such as ``srun``:
      
      .. code-block:: console
      
	 $ ./configure --exec-cmd <my-custom-command>

      The default value is ``mpiexec``


The tools will automatically load modules for installing, running and testing the code.
The modules and CMAKE flags can be customised by adding corresponding files in ``tools/config`` (see available examples).
The ``__default`` files can be modified accordingly to your system.

The installation can be tested by calling

   .. code-block:: console
        
      $ make test

The above command requires the  `atest <https://gitlab.ethz.ch/mavt-cse/atest.git>`_ framework (see :ref:`user-testing`).

Commit message:

warning on mpich-3.3; see https://github.com/pmodels/mpich/commit/0f7be7196cc05bf0c908761e148628e88d635190

docs/source/user/installation.rst, after:

.. _user-install:

.. role:: console(code)
   :language: console

Installation
############

YMeRo
*****

YMeRo requires at least Kepler-generation NVIDIA GPU and depends on a few external tools and libraries:

- Unix-based OS
- NVIDIA CUDA toolkit version >= 9.2
- gcc compiler with c++14 support compatible with CUDA installation
- CMake version >= 3.8
- Python interpreter version >= 3.4
- MPI library
- HDF5 parallel library
- libbfd for pretty debug information in case of an error

.. note::

   The code has been tested with  ``mpich-3.2.1``, ``mpich-3.3.1`` and ``openmpi-3.1.3``.
   A known bug in ``mpich-3.3`` causes YMeRo to deadlock, use another version instead.
  
With all the prerequisites installed, you can take the following steps to run YMeRo:

#. Get the up-to-date version of the code:

   .. code-block:: console
      
      $ git clone --recursive https://github.com/cselab/YMeRo.git ymero
      
#. In most cases automatic installation will work correctly, you should try it in the first place.
   Navigate to the folder with the code and run the installation command:
   
   .. code-block:: console
      
      $ cd ymero
      $ make install
    
   In case of any issues, check the prerequisites or try a more "manual" way:
    
   #. From the ymero folder, create a build folder and run CMake:
   
      .. code-block:: console
         
         $ mkdir -p build/
         $ cd build
         $ cmake ../
      
      If CMake reports some packages are not found, make sure you have all the prerequisites installed and corresponding modules loaded.
      If that doesn't help, or you have some packages installed in non-default locations,
      you will need to manually point CMake to the correct locations.
      
      See CMake documentation for more details on how to provide package installation files.
      
      .. note::
         On CRAY systems you may need to tell CMake to dynamically link the libraries by the following flag:
         
         .. code-block:: console
         
            $ cmake -DCMAKE_EXE_LINKER_FLAGS="-dynamic" ../
            
      .. note::
         Usually CMake will correctly determine compute capability of your GPU. However, if compiling on a machine without a GPU
         (for example on a login node of a cluster), you may manually specify the compute capability (use your version instead of 6.0):
         
         .. code-block:: console
         
            $ cmake -DCUDA_ARCH_NAME=6.0 ../
            
         Note that in case you don't specify any capability, YMeRo will be compiled for all supported architectures, which increases
         compilation time and slightly increases application startup. Performance, however, should not be affected.
      
   #. Now you can compile the code:
   
      .. code-block:: console
         
         $ make -j <number_of_jobs> 
      
      The library will be generated in the current build folder.
      
   #. A simple way to use YMeRo after compilation is to install it with pip. Navigate to the root folder of YMeRo
      and run the following command:
      
      .. code-block:: console
         
         $ pip install --user --upgrade .
         
         
#. Now you should be able to use the YMeRo in your Python scripts:
      
   .. code-block:: python
        
      import ymero
   

Compile Options
***************

Additional compile options are provided through ``cmake``:

* ``MEMBRANE_DOUBLE:BOOL=OFF``: Computes membrane forces (see :any:`MembraneForces`) in double prcision if set to ``ON``; default: single precision
* ``ROD_DOUBLE:BOOL=OFF``:  Computes rod forces (see :any:`RodForces`) in double prcision if set to ``ON``; default: single precision
* ``USE_NVTX:BOOL=OFF``: Add NVIDIA Tools Extension (NVTX) trace support for more profiling informations if set to ``ON``; default: no NVTX


Tools
*****

Additional helper tools can be installed for convenience.
They are required for testing the code.

   .. code-block:: console
        
      $ cd tools/
      $ ./configure
      $ make install

 
   .. note::
      By default, the tools are installed in your ``$HOME/bin`` directory.
      It is possible to choose another location by setting the ``--bin-prefix`` option:
      
      .. code-block:: console
      
	 $ ./configure --bin-prefix <my-custom-tools-location>


   .. note::
      In order to run on a cluster with a job scheduler (e.g. slurm), the ``--exec-cmd`` option should be set to the right command, such as ``srun``:
      
      .. code-block:: console
      
	 $ ./configure --exec-cmd <my-custom-command>

      The default value is ``mpiexec``


The tools will automatically load modules for installing, running and testing the code.
The modules and CMAKE flags can be customised by adding corresponding files in ``tools/config`` (see available examples).
The ``__default`` files can be modified accordingly to your system.

The installation can be tested by calling

   .. code-block:: console
        
      $ make test

The above command requires the  `atest <https://gitlab.ethz.ch/mavt-cse/atest.git>`_ framework (see :ref:`user-testing`).
